It's Monday morning and you arrive at the office
ready to create that report
you've been procrastinating all last week,
but after logging into your computer,
you see that your inbox is overflowing.
So, you decide to knock out some emails first.
Then, you get pulled into an impromptu meeting
with some coworkers,
and then, you get sucked into an hour-long phone call
with a customer.
Before you know it, it's 2 p.m.
and you haven't even started on your report.
You wonder, where did the day go?
This is one example of what can happen when you don't have
effective time management practices in place.
Effective time management can make or break
your career success,
but what does time management actually mean?
Simply put, time management is the ability to plan
and control how you spend your time to achieve your goals.
Effective time management means you can allocate your time
in a way that aligns with your needs, interests, and values.
Learning how to manage your time effectively
offers several personal and professional advantages.
For example, you can accomplish more
or get more done in less time.
Reduce stress.
There's no need to feel rushed or anxious
about whether or not you'll get your work done
when you're using your time effectively.
Create more free time.
Identifying where to save time
can give you back more free time for self-care, breaks,
or work-life balance.
Finally, effective time management
allows you to live your values.
You can spend more time on the projects, interests,
and people that are most important to you.
In summary, not only can effective time management
help you accomplish more
and be more successful in your work,
but it also can give you more time to spend on the things
that matter most to you outside of work.
So, what's involved in time management
and how can you start managing your time better?
Here are four best practices.
First, one of the easiest ways
you can start managing your time better
is to analyze how you're using it.
Track how you're spending your time
to identify your biggest time stealers throughout the day.
The second best practice is to prioritize.
Which activities are most important to you?
Which tasks are the most valuable to your team
and the company?
And what activities could be eliminated or postponed?
Knowing your priorities is essential
to understanding how to make the best use of your time.
Then, you can set more relevant
and targeted goals for accomplishing them,
which is our third best practice.
Set goals for accomplishing your high-priority items.
Specific milestones and clear expectations
can provide structure and focus to your day.
Finally, schedule your time using a calendar or planner.
Commit to your goals by blocking out
the necessary time on your calendar
as you would for an important meeting or appointment.
While you can't have more hours in the day,
you can take control over how you spend them.
Follow these four time management best practices
to achieve more, reduce stress,
and regain control of your work and your work-life balance.